1. virtual memory
    Virtual memory not only keeps processes safe (because one process cannot directly read or modify another process's memory) 
    it also allows the system to efficiently allocate and re-allocate portions of memory to different processes.
    Virtual maps memory addresses used by a program, called virtual addresses, into physical addresses in computer memory.
    Swap infrequenty data into mememory on disk.
    
   TLB = Translation Lookaside Buffer. used to map virtual address to physical address quickly
   In a cached system, the base addresses of the last few referenced pages is maintained in registers called the TLB that aids in faster lookup. 
   TLB contains those page-table entries that have been most recently used. 
   Normally, each virtual memory reference causes 2 physical memory accesses- one to fetch appropriate page-table entry, and one to fetch the desired data. 
   Using TLB in-between, this is reduced to just one physical memory access in cases of TLB-hit.
   
   Resident Set is the portion of memory occupied by a process that is held in main memory (RAM). The rest of the occupied memory exists in the swap space or file system, either because some parts of the occupied memory were paged out, or because some parts of the executable were never loaded
   Thrashing
   when the required page is not in resident set, OS has to access virtual memory or disk. The computer spends an unsuitably large amount of time transferring pages to and from a backing store, hence slowing down useful work.

2. write-through v.s. write-back cache
   write-through: write cache and memory both;
   write-back: initially, writing is done only to the cache. The write to the backing store is postponed until the cache blocks containing the data are about to be modified/replaced by new content.
   
3. process v.s. thread
    (1) Definition:  a process is an instance of a computer program that is being executed. A process contains one or more threads.
                     a thread is the smallest sequence of programmed instructions that can be managed independently by a scheduler
    (2) Difference: Process runs in separate memory spaces, and threads run in shared memory spaces;
                    Process has independent address space and is independent on other processes
                    Thread switch is light-weight compared with process switch
                    Processes provide better isolation between actions
    (3)context switch:
                    process switch: when you change virtual memory spaces, the processor's Translation Lookaside Buffer (TLB) or equivalent gets flushed making memory accesses much more expensive for a while.
                                    It requires saving all of the state of the currently executing program, including its register state, associated kernel state, and all of its virtual memory configuration
                    thread switch: less context you need to save/load. Specifically, memory is shared. The kernel doesn't have to do any page outs of dirty pages
    (4)process creation:
                <>Load code and data into memory.
                <>Create and initialize process control block.
                <>Create first thread with call stack.
                <>Provide initial values for "saved state" for the thread
                <>Make process known to dispatcher; dispatcher "resumes" to beginning of process.

4. Dispather
    The dispatcher is inner-most portion of the OS that runs processes:

5. RAID
    Redundant Array of Inexpensive (or Independent) Disks is a data storage virtualization technology that combines multiple physical disk drive components into one or more logical units for the purposes of data redundancy, performance improvement, or both.
    There were five RAID levels: RAID1, RAID2, RAID3, RAID4, RAID5
    
    
6. Implement HashMap, put，get and remove  (multithreads access using lock slicing ＋ CAS)

7.  IPC，ITC   IPC = Inter-Process Communication,  ITC = Inter-Thread Communication
    A process cannot access memory inside another process. Processes can communicate by:
    (1) Network packeges
    (2) Files
    (3) Pipes
    (4) Shared memory
    (5) Semaphores
    (6) Corba messages (Java)
    (7) RPC calls
    
    Threads can communicate by accessing the memory in the same processes. For programmers, use wait(), notify() and notifyAll() for communication.
    (1) wait(), notify(), notifyAll() are used together with synchronized; 
    (2) cond.await(), cond.signal(), cond.signalAll() are used together with lock;
    (3) BlockingQueue (producer and consumer). Two methods: put(E, e), take(), if queue is full or empty, block the thread
    
    线程唤醒后从哪儿执行？ 注意：实际情况是，被唤醒并且被执行的线程是从上次阻塞的位置从下开始运行，也就是从wait()方法后开始执行。

    所以判断是否进入某一线程的条件 是用while判断，而不是用If判断判断。
    
    
8.  Exception
    Why use exception in Java (benefits)?
      (1) Separating Error-Handling Code from "Regular" Code
      (2) Propagating Errors Up the Call Stack
      (3) Grouping and Differentiating Error Types
    Runtime Exceptions: 
          They usually happen due to programmers fault. For example, 
          if an ArithmeticException of division by zero occurs or an ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsExceptionoccurs, 
          it is because we are not careful enough in our coding. They happen usually because some errors in our program logic. 
          So, they must be cleared before our program enters into production mode. They are unchecked in the sense that, 
          our program must fail when it occurs, so that we programmers can resolve it at the time of development and testing itself.

    Errors: 
          Errors are situations from which usually the program cannot recover. 
          For example, if a StackOverflowError occurs, our program cannot do much, 
          such as increase the size of program's function calling stack. Or if an OutOfMemoryError occurs, 
          we cannot do much to increase the amount of RAM available to our program. 
          In such cases, it is better to exit the program. That is why



9. DeadLock: (1) mutual exclusion, (2) hold and wait, (3) no preemption, (4) Circular wait
          avoid deadlock:  make sure access critical section in the same order; introduce preemption

10. At-least once  v.s. Exactly once

11. SQL v.s. NoSql
    SQL databases represent data in form of tables; NoSql databases are the collection of key-value pair, documents, graph databases or wide-column stores which do not have standard schema
    NoSql may not require fixed table schemas, usually avoid join operations, and typically scale horizontally. Academic researchers typically refer to these databases as structured storage,
    SQL databases have predefined schema whereas NoSQL databases have dynamic schema for unstructured data.
    SQL databases are vertically scalable whereas the NoSQL databases are horizontally scalable. 
    
12. Java Synchronization
    (1) use synchronized monitor / synchronized method
        synchronized(object){
            // code block
        }
        public synchronized void update(){  // synchronized method
        }
    (2) use synchronized lock
        private final ReentrantLock lock = new ReentrantLock();
        lock.lock();
        try{
            // code ...
        }finally{
            lock.unlock();
        }
   
    
13. TCP vs UDP
    Http uses TCP, DNS uses UDP;  TCP reliable, connetion; UDP is connectionless. 
    TCP has re-transmission mechanism, Flow-control and Congestion control;
    TCP has more overhead when using three-way handshake to establish or close the connection;
    UDP light-weight and high efficient but not reliable.
    TCP is used if the size of the packet goes over 512 bytes.
    
14. Page and Segmentation
    a page is a fixed-sized block whereas, a segment is a variable-sized block;
    Paging may lead to internal fragmentation; Segmentation may lead to external fragmentation.
    The hardware decides the page size; The segment size is specified by the user;
    refer to http://techdifferences.com/difference-between-paging-and-segmentation-in-os.html
    
15. Gateway
    Gateway is a passage to connect two networks together that may work upon different networking models. 
    They basically works as the messenger agents that take data from one system, interpret it, and transfer it to another system. 
    Gateways are also called protocol converters and can operate at any network layer. 
    Gateways are generally more complex than switch or router.
    
16. Create threads in Java: extends thread class or implement Runnable interface?
    (1) If we extend the Thread class, our class cannot extend any other class because Java doesn’t support multiple inheritance. 
    But, if we implement the Runnable interface, our class can still extend other base classes.
    (2) We can achieve basic functionality of a thread by extending Thread class because it provides some inbuilt methods like yield(), 
    interrupt() etc. that are not available in Runnable interface.
  
17. REST API
    Representational state transfer API. Representation of resource such as JSON,XML,HTML,SOAP format
    State is, for example, the webpage on website. If direct to another page on same website, the state changes.
    verb + URL (GET, PUT, POST, DELETE)
    REST API = Rest API endpoint URL + API method + parameters
    refer to https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LooL6_chvN4
    
18. Transaction 
    Transactions group a set of tasks into a single execution unit. 
    Incomplete steps result in the failure of the transaction. A database transaction, by definition, must be atomic, consistent, isolated and durable. 

19. Hadoop / MapReduce / Pig 
